pages/community-lessons.md, before:

---
layout: reactable
permalink: community-lessons/
title: Community Developed Lessons
---


The Carpentries community is commited to a collaborative and open process for lesson development and to sharing teaching materials. 
We provide two avenues for community members to share lesson materials - [The Carpentries Incubator](https://carpentries-incubator.org/) and The Carpentries Lab.

[The Carpentries Incubator](#the-carpentries-incubator) is for:

- Collaborative lesson development (from conceptual to stable lessons).
- Providing visibility for lessons that are being worked on.

[The Carpentries Lab](#the-carpentries-lab) is for:

- Peer-reviewed, short-format, lessons that use the teaching approach and lesson design from The Carpentries.
- Submitting lessons for peer-review in a way traditional journal peer-review would not be able to provide.

## Browse Community Developed Lessons

Explore the full collection of lessons developed by The Carpentries community
in the table below.
The table includes all lesson repositories in The Carpentries Incubator and
Carpentries Lab.
It can be sorted and filtered based on the contents of its columns:
click on a heading cell to sort the rows by that column,
or type a term into the box included in a header cell to filter the table rows by
cells in that column which contain that term.

([Read the information at the end of the page if you develop a lesson and don't see it in this listing](#information-for-lesson-developers).)

{% include _content_lesson_table.html %}

---

## The Carpentries Incubator

[The Carpentries Incubator](https://carpentries-incubator.org/) is a place for Carpentries community members to share Carpentries-style teaching materials at all stages of development, to collaborate on lesson development, and receive feedback from other community members.

Lessons in The Carpentries Incubator are developed and supported by community members and are not officially endorsed by The Carpentries. We encourage you to browse the Incubator lessons for materials that meet your needs and to use these materials freely (all lessons are [licensed CC-BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)). However, we are unable to offer workshops teaching these lessons upon request.

If you are interested in developing or submitting a lesson, please visit
[the Proposals repository for The Carpentries Incubator](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/proposals#readme).
Please read the information on
[our Development of Lessons page](https://carpentries.org/involved-lessons/)
if you would like to contribute to the development of a lesson already present
in The Carpentries Incubator.
You can also find
[a list of issues in need of attention on the Help Wanted page](https://carpentries.org/help-wanted-issues/).

## The Carpentries Lab

[The Carpentries Lab](https://github.com/carpentries-lab/reviews/) is a place for sharing high-quality, peer-reviewed lessons
that follow best practices in pedagogy and
the general teaching practices used in Carpentries workshops.

Lessons in The Carpentries Lab have been peer-reviewed and are vetted by The Carpentries as high-quality resources. We encourage you to browse the Lab lessons for materials that meet your needs and to use these materials freely (all lessons are licensed [CC-BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)). However, we are unable to offer workshops teaching these lessons upon request.

At this time, we are inviting submissions for review and acceptance to The Carpentries Lab.
If you are interested in having a lesson reviewed for inclusion in The Lab, please visit [The Carpentries Lab reviews repository](https://github.com/carpentries-lab/reviews/).

## Information for Lesson Developers

The table on this page is created based on the
[topic annotations on repositories](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/classifying-your-repository-with-topics)
in The Carpentries Incubator and Carpentries Lab.
If you are developing a lesson in the Incubator but do not see it listed above,
check that your lesson repository has topic tags assigned,
_including the "lesson" tag_.
Topics can be added to a lesson repository by editing the repository
_About_ box, near the top right of the repository homepage interface.
More guidance for adding topics to a lesson repository is provided in
[an appendix to The Carpentries Curriculum Development Handbook](https://cdh.carpentries.org/the-carpentries-incubator.html#topic-tags).
Changes to the lesson repository may take several hours to be updated
on this page.

If you have added the appropriate topics on your lesson repository and it
still does not appear in the table above,
please contact [the Incubator team](mailto:incubator@carpentries.org).

Commit message:

update info about Lab reviews pilot

pages/community-lessons.md, after:

---
layout: reactable
permalink: community-lessons/
title: Community Developed Lessons
---


The Carpentries community is commited to a collaborative and open process for lesson development and to sharing teaching materials.
We provide two avenues for community members to share lesson materials - [The Carpentries Incubator](https://carpentries-incubator.org/) and [The Carpentries Lab](https://carpentries-lab.org/).

[The Carpentries Incubator](#the-carpentries-incubator) is for:

- Collaborative lesson development (from conceptual to stable lessons).
- Providing visibility for lessons that are being worked on.

[The Carpentries Lab](#the-carpentries-lab) is for:

- Peer-reviewed, short-format, lessons that use the teaching approach and lesson design from The Carpentries.
- [Submitting lessons for peer-review](https://github.com/carpentries-lab/reviews/) in a way traditional journal peer-review would not be able to provide.

## Browse Community Developed Lessons

Explore the full collection of lessons developed by The Carpentries community
in the table below.
The table includes all lesson repositories in The Carpentries Incubator and
Carpentries Lab.
It can be sorted and filtered based on the contents of its columns:
click on a heading cell to sort the rows by that column,
or type a term into the box included in a header cell to filter the table rows by
cells in that column which contain that term.

([Read the information at the end of the page if you develop a lesson and don't see it in this listing](#information-for-lesson-developers).)

{% include _content_lesson_table.html %}

---

## The Carpentries Incubator

[The Carpentries Incubator](https://carpentries-incubator.org/) is a place for Carpentries community members to share Carpentries-style teaching materials at all stages of development, to collaborate on lesson development, and receive feedback from other community members.

Lessons in The Carpentries Incubator are developed and supported by community members and are not officially endorsed by The Carpentries. We encourage you to browse the Incubator lessons for materials that meet your needs and to use these materials freely (all lessons are [licensed CC-BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)). However, we are unable to offer workshops teaching these lessons upon request.

If you are interested in developing or submitting a lesson, please visit
[the Proposals repository for The Carpentries Incubator](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/proposals#readme).
Please read the information on
[our Development of Lessons page](https://carpentries.org/involved-lessons/)
if you would like to contribute to the development of a lesson already present
in The Carpentries Incubator.
You can also find
[a list of issues in need of attention on the Help Wanted page](https://carpentries.org/help-wanted-issues/).

## The Carpentries Lab

[The Carpentries Lab](https://carpentries-lab.org/) is a place for sharing high-quality, peer-reviewed lessons
that follow best practices in pedagogy and
the general teaching practices used in Carpentries workshops.

Lessons in The Carpentries Lab have been peer-reviewed and are vetted by The Carpentries as high-quality resources. We encourage you to browse the Lab lessons for materials that meet your needs and to use these materials freely (all lessons are licensed [CC-BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)). However, we are unable to offer workshops teaching these lessons upon request.

While we pilot our review process, we can commit only to review lessons that have been invited to submit to The Carpentries Lab.
Authors who have not been invited may still submit a lesson for review, but can expect some delay in the processing of their request.
For more information about The Carpentries Lab and the open peer review process, please visit [the reviews repository](https://github.com/carpentries-lab/reviews/).

## Information for Lesson Developers

The table on this page is created based on the
[topic annotations on repositories](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/classifying-your-repository-with-topics)
in The Carpentries Incubator and Carpentries Lab.
If you are developing a lesson in the Incubator but do not see it listed above,
check that your lesson repository has topic tags assigned,
_including the "lesson" tag_.
Topics can be added to a lesson repository by editing the repository
_About_ box, near the top right of the repository homepage interface.
More guidance for adding topics to a lesson repository is provided in
[an appendix to The Carpentries Curriculum Development Handbook](https://cdh.carpentries.org/the-carpentries-incubator.html#topic-tags).
Changes to the lesson repository may take several hours to be updated
on this page.

If you have added the appropriate topics on your lesson repository and it
still does not appear in the table above,
please contact [the Incubator team](mailto:incubator@carpentries.org).
