pages/director-of-partnerships.md, before:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "Director or Deputy Director of Partnerships"
permalink: /director-of-partnerships/
---

Posting date: 26 October 2020 

[The Carpentries](http://carpentries.org/) is committed to training and fostering an active, inclusive, diverse community of learners 
and instructors who promote and model the importance of software and data in research. We seek an engaged and collaborative individual 
who shares this vision for a full time position as the Director of Partnerships or Deputy Director of Partnerships for The Carpentries. 
The (Deputy) Director of Partnerships has a broad responsibility for overseeing and implementing the partnership program as the 
[Partnership Team Lead](https://carpentries.org/core-team-projects/#membership-team). As the (Deputy) Director of Partnerships, 
you will provide planning, vision, and implementation of the partnership program and represent the needs of partner organisations
in planning and strategic development. 

The Carpentries is an open, global community teaching the skills and perspectives to turn data into knowledge. We build capacity in essential 
data and computational skills for conducting efficient, open, and reproducible research. We believe in a world where more people have the computational
skills and perspectives to work with data to address their questions in science, scholarship and society. We aim to build that world by scaling
evidence-based teaching, creating inclusive environments, and building communities of practice based on open principles. In this role, you will
join a diverse team of professionals working to spread data-driven research skills. Our community comprises approximately 70,000 learners, 
2,400 instructors, 100 Trainers, and 85 partner organisations from research institutions around the world.

(Note: We are in the process of renaming our membership program to partnership program. You may see both terms on our website.)

## Qualifications:
This posting is intentionally broad. We are not expecting experience with all components of the position. We are looking for someone with skills
and perspectives that complement our existing team and an enthusiasm for the role and the goals and approaches of our organisation. 

Depending on experience, candidates may be hired at either the Deputy Director (3-5 years relevant experience) or full Director level 
(5+ years experience). 

For this position, we are only able to consider candidates who are located in and have work authorisation within Australia, Canada, 
New Zealand, the United Kingdom, or the United States. 

## Requirements
- Experience working with academic institutions, including an understanding of institutional hierarchies and funding sources
- Strong skills in strategic development including planning, delegating, and program building
- Skills to collaborate with and motivate institutional partners globally
- Excellent public presenting ability
- Excellent written and real-time communication skills
- Demonstrated commitment to equity and inclusion 

## Preferred
- Demonstrated success in sales, marketing, fundraising, and/or corporate sponsorship development
- Experience with The Carpentries
- Experience with volunteer communities and/or non-profit organisations
- Experience working remotely with a globally distributed team

Our team values openness, honesty, fairness, and transparency as the keys to fostering trust. We believe that the individuals who make up our 
community are the most important part of our organisation and our strongest resource. We strive to make decisions that prioritise people first 
and empower the growth and success of all who are part of our organisation. We value a growth mindset in all that we do and strive to be always 
improving and evolving ourselves and our methodologies, being receptive to feedback, responsive, curious, and willing to learn.

## About Us

We are a [Core Team](https://carpentries.org/team/) of thirteen staff and independent contractors, with a nine person Executive Council. 
We are a fiscally sponsored project of the 501(c)3 [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/). We have 
[a large community](https://carpentries.org/instructors-map/) of instructors and contributors, and a much larger community of users. 
We use evidence-based teaching practices to teach the core skills for effective computational and data work, and we promote reproducible research
and open science/open source widely. All interactions in The Carpentries community and spaces, both virtual and in-person, are governed by our 
[Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html#code-of-conduct-detailed-view).

## Compensation and Benefits
This is a remote position. Candidates may be hired at either the Deputy Director or full Director level. For US-based candidates, 
annual compensation will be $60,000 - $76,000 USD (Deputy Director) or $77,000 - $110,000 USD (Director), commensurate with experience. 
Outside the US, total compensation may need to be adjusted in accordance with legal and financial costs associated with international hiring
and contracting for a US-based entity. All qualified applicants who are located in and authorized to work within Australia, Canada, New Zealand,
the United Kingdom, or the United States are highly encouraged to apply, and we will make every effort to be transparent about the impact of
costs on potential compensation during the interview process.

In the US, Community Initiatives offers a comprehensive benefits package including:
- Fully paid medical, dental and vision
- 401k with employer match
- Basic life insurance, AD&D, STD & LTD
- 4 weeks of vacation
- 12 paid holidays
- 4 floating holidays

Outside the US, Community Initiatives will make every effort to support the hiring or contracting of international workers, 
following all local laws related to employment and benefits, ensuring a competitive compensation package.

## Equal Employment Opportunity
The Carpentries is dedicated to providing a welcoming and supportive environment for all people, regardless of background or identity. 
We are an equal opportunity employer and give consideration for employment to qualified applicants without regard to age, race, color, 
religion, creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, marital status, disability or protected veteran status,
or any other status or characteristic protected by US federal, state, or local law. We encourage all qualified individuals to apply.

## To Apply
Please submit a cover letter and resume or CV to jobs@carpentries.org. If you would like to be considered for any of our 
[other open positions](http://carpentries.org/jobs), please indicate all positions you are applying for in your cover letter. 
Please also clearly indicate your country of residence. Applicants without work authorisation in one of the above-listed countries will
not be considered for this position. 

Applications received before November 11, 2020 [00:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201110T2359) will 
receive full consideration.

Commit message:

note jobs that are filled or not accepting applications

pages/director-of-partnerships.md, after:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "Director or Deputy Director of Partnerships"
permalink: /director-of-partnerships/
---

Posting date: 26 October 2020 

**We are no longer reviewing applications for this position.**


[The Carpentries](http://carpentries.org/) is committed to training and fostering an active, inclusive, diverse community of learners 
and instructors who promote and model the importance of software and data in research. We seek an engaged and collaborative individual 
who shares this vision for a full time position as the Director of Partnerships or Deputy Director of Partnerships for The Carpentries. 
The (Deputy) Director of Partnerships has a broad responsibility for overseeing and implementing the partnership program as the 
[Partnership Team Lead](https://carpentries.org/core-team-projects/#membership-team). As the (Deputy) Director of Partnerships, 
you will provide planning, vision, and implementation of the partnership program and represent the needs of partner organisations
in planning and strategic development. 

The Carpentries is an open, global community teaching the skills and perspectives to turn data into knowledge. We build capacity in essential 
data and computational skills for conducting efficient, open, and reproducible research. We believe in a world where more people have the computational
skills and perspectives to work with data to address their questions in science, scholarship and society. We aim to build that world by scaling
evidence-based teaching, creating inclusive environments, and building communities of practice based on open principles. In this role, you will
join a diverse team of professionals working to spread data-driven research skills. Our community comprises approximately 70,000 learners, 
2,400 instructors, 100 Trainers, and 85 partner organisations from research institutions around the world.

(Note: We are in the process of renaming our membership program to partnership program. You may see both terms on our website.)

## Qualifications:
This posting is intentionally broad. We are not expecting experience with all components of the position. We are looking for someone with skills
and perspectives that complement our existing team and an enthusiasm for the role and the goals and approaches of our organisation. 

Depending on experience, candidates may be hired at either the Deputy Director (3-5 years relevant experience) or full Director level 
(5+ years experience). 

For this position, we are only able to consider candidates who are located in and have work authorisation within Australia, Canada, 
New Zealand, the United Kingdom, or the United States. 

## Requirements
- Experience working with academic institutions, including an understanding of institutional hierarchies and funding sources
- Strong skills in strategic development including planning, delegating, and program building
- Skills to collaborate with and motivate institutional partners globally
- Excellent public presenting ability
- Excellent written and real-time communication skills
- Demonstrated commitment to equity and inclusion 

## Preferred
- Demonstrated success in sales, marketing, fundraising, and/or corporate sponsorship development
- Experience with The Carpentries
- Experience with volunteer communities and/or non-profit organisations
- Experience working remotely with a globally distributed team

Our team values openness, honesty, fairness, and transparency as the keys to fostering trust. We believe that the individuals who make up our 
community are the most important part of our organisation and our strongest resource. We strive to make decisions that prioritise people first 
and empower the growth and success of all who are part of our organisation. We value a growth mindset in all that we do and strive to be always 
improving and evolving ourselves and our methodologies, being receptive to feedback, responsive, curious, and willing to learn.

## About Us

We are a [Core Team](https://carpentries.org/team/) of thirteen staff and independent contractors, with a nine person Executive Council. 
We are a fiscally sponsored project of the 501(c)3 [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/). We have 
[a large community](https://carpentries.org/instructors-map/) of instructors and contributors, and a much larger community of users. 
We use evidence-based teaching practices to teach the core skills for effective computational and data work, and we promote reproducible research
and open science/open source widely. All interactions in The Carpentries community and spaces, both virtual and in-person, are governed by our 
[Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html#code-of-conduct-detailed-view).

## Compensation and Benefits
This is a remote position. Candidates may be hired at either the Deputy Director or full Director level. For US-based candidates, 
annual compensation will be $60,000 - $76,000 USD (Deputy Director) or $77,000 - $110,000 USD (Director), commensurate with experience. 
Outside the US, total compensation may need to be adjusted in accordance with legal and financial costs associated with international hiring
and contracting for a US-based entity. All qualified applicants who are located in and authorized to work within Australia, Canada, New Zealand,
the United Kingdom, or the United States are highly encouraged to apply, and we will make every effort to be transparent about the impact of
costs on potential compensation during the interview process.

In the US, Community Initiatives offers a comprehensive benefits package including:
- Fully paid medical, dental and vision
- 401k with employer match
- Basic life insurance, AD&D, STD & LTD
- 4 weeks of vacation
- 12 paid holidays
- 4 floating holidays

Outside the US, Community Initiatives will make every effort to support the hiring or contracting of international workers, 
following all local laws related to employment and benefits, ensuring a competitive compensation package.

## Equal Employment Opportunity
The Carpentries is dedicated to providing a welcoming and supportive environment for all people, regardless of background or identity. 
We are an equal opportunity employer and give consideration for employment to qualified applicants without regard to age, race, color, 
religion, creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, marital status, disability or protected veteran status,
or any other status or characteristic protected by US federal, state, or local law. We encourage all qualified individuals to apply.

## To Apply
Please submit a cover letter and resume or CV to jobs@carpentries.org. If you would like to be considered for any of our 
[other open positions](http://carpentries.org/jobs), please indicate all positions you are applying for in your cover letter. 
Please also clearly indicate your country of residence. Applicants without work authorisation in one of the above-listed countries will
not be considered for this position. 

Applications received before November 11, 2020 [00:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201110T2359) will 
receive full consideration.
