pages/jobs.md, before:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "Job Opportunities with The Carpentries"
permalink: /jobs/
---

## Accessibility Coordinator

[The Carpentries](http://carpentries.org/) is committed to training and fostering an active, inclusive, and diverse community of learners and instructors who promote and model the importance of software and data in research. We seek an engaged and collaborative individual who shares this vision for a full-time, two-year position as the Accessibility Coordinator for The Carpentries. The Accessibility Coordinator will have a broad responsibility for integrating accessibility standards and best practices across all areas of The Carpentries organisation.

As the Accessibility Coordinator, you will lead accessibility audits of The Carpentries programs, services, assets, materials, and communications and work with other team members to incorporate your findings. The audit will consider all areas of accessibility, including disability accessibility, use of non-inclusive language (e.g., ableist or gendered language), reliance on US-Centric framing (e.g., concepts/idioms), and modes of participation for individuals without stable internet access. The Accessibility Coordinator will develop and lead training for staff and community members and will engage closely with these groups to improve user experiences across The Carpentries platforms.

<a href="/accessibility-coordinator/">
        <button class="btn">
          Learn more about this position
        </button>
</a>

Commit message:

re-open amy dev position

pages/jobs.md, after:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "Job Opportunities with The Carpentries"
permalink: /jobs/
---

## Django/Python Developer

**_Deadline: March 13th, 2022, 23:59 UTC_**

[The Carpentries](http://carpentries.org/) is committed to “training and
fostering an active, inclusive, diverse community of learners and instructors
who promote and model the importance of software and data in research.” We seek
an engaged and collaborative individual who shares this vision for a contractor
or short-term position as a Python/Django Developer for The Carpentries. The
Python/Django Developer has a broad responsibility for maintaining and
developing new features in [AMY](https://github.com/carpentries/amy), the web
application that manages data on our community members and workshops.

As a Python/Django Developer, you will work closely with the lead developer on
AMY, the Infrastructure Team and the Workshop Administration Team, to improve
the existing code base and implement new features. AMY is built using Django and
relies on the following tools and technologies: Docker, Redis, PostgreSQL, AWS,
jQuery, bootstrap, select2.

<a class="radius button small" href="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}{% link pages/python-django-developer.md %}">Learn more about this position</a>

## Accessibility Coordinator

[The Carpentries](http://carpentries.org/) is committed to training and fostering an active, inclusive, and diverse community of learners and instructors who promote and model the importance of software and data in research. We seek an engaged and collaborative individual who shares this vision for a full-time, two-year position as the Accessibility Coordinator for The Carpentries. The Accessibility Coordinator will have a broad responsibility for integrating accessibility standards and best practices across all areas of The Carpentries organisation.

As the Accessibility Coordinator, you will lead accessibility audits of The Carpentries programs, services, assets, materials, and communications and work with other team members to incorporate your findings. The audit will consider all areas of accessibility, including disability accessibility, use of non-inclusive language (e.g., ableist or gendered language), reliance on US-Centric framing (e.g., concepts/idioms), and modes of participation for individuals without stable internet access. The Accessibility Coordinator will develop and lead training for staff and community members and will engage closely with these groups to improve user experiences across The Carpentries platforms.

<a href="/accessibility-coordinator/">
        <button class="btn">
          Learn more about this position
        </button>
</a>
