pages/lesson-infra.md, before:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "The Lesson Infrastructure Committee"
permalink: /lesson-infra/
excerpt: Maintainers for Carpentries lesson and workshop templates and documentation.
---

Members of the Lesson Infrastructure Committee serve as Maintainers for The Carpentries lesson template and its documentation, 
as well as for The Carpentries workshop template.

_Our Goal:_    
To maintain and update lesson and workshop templates for The Carpentries.

_Our Approach:_    
We do this by conducting meetings where we review current issues and plan updates. Minutes and other information is stored in 
this [GitHub repo](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure).

_Our Structure:_    
We have monthly meetings. See our [etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/infrastructure-subcommittee) for meeting times and agenda items.

_Our Membership:_    

- Maxim Belkin
- Sarah Brown
- Rémi Emonet
- Kate Hertweck
- François Michonneau
- Tracy Teal
- Raniere Silva
- Naupaka Zimmerman

_Contacting the Committee_   
[Please send an email to François Michonneau](mailto:francois@carpentries.org).

Commit message:

note lesson infrastructure cmte is on hiatus

pages/lesson-infra.md, after:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "The Lesson Infrastructure Committee"
permalink: /lesson-infra/
excerpt: Maintainers for Carpentries lesson and workshop templates and documentation.
---

The Lesson Infrastructure Committee went into hiatus in March 2020 due to the pandemic. We are in the process of performing a retrospective of this committee to identify strengths and areas of improvement. These findings will help us guide the formation of the next committee to ensure that it aligns with our core values. Continue reading to learn more about the past work of this committee.

Members of the Lesson Infrastructure Committee serve as Maintainers for The Carpentries lesson template and its documentation, 
as well as for The Carpentries workshop template.

_Our Goal:_    
To maintain and update lesson and workshop templates for The Carpentries.

_Our Approach:_    
We do this by conducting meetings where we review current issues and plan updates. Minutes and other information is stored in 
this [GitHub repo](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-infrastructure).

_Our Structure:_    
We have monthly meetings. See our [etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/infrastructure-subcommittee) for meeting times and agenda items.

_Our Membership:_    

- Maxim Belkin
- Sarah Brown
- Rémi Emonet
- Kate Hertweck
- François Michonneau
- Tracy Teal
- Raniere Silva
- Naupaka Zimmerman

_Contacting the Committee_   
Please send an email to [François Michonneau](mailto:francois@carpentries.org) or [Zhian Kamvar](zkamvar@carpentries.org).
