pages/membership.md, before:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
permalink: /membership/
title: Become a Member Organisation
excerpt: A Member Organisation is an organisation which has made a commitment to the growth and spread of The Carpentries
---

A Member Organisation is an organisation which has made a commitment to the growth and spread of The Carpentries. Members receive priority access to [Instructor Training](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/) and guidance with capacity building at their organisation. With local Instructors, Member organisations can readily run low-cost local [workshops](/workshops/). Community-developed lessons enable our Instructors to globally share the effort for developing impactful lessons on technical topics. Memberships give The Carpentries revenue to ensure the ongoing development and maintenance of the lessons demanded by research communities. We also work to give your local Instructors support, mentorship, and a forum for community lesson development.

### Membership Tiers

We offer several levels of Memberships, based on training activities expected annually. All fees listed are in USD and represent costs for not-for-profit organisations. We also provide memberships for for-profit organisations. Please [contact us](mailto:membership@carpentries.org) for more information.

{: .table .table-striped}
||Bronze|Silver|Gold|Platinum|
| ------|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|
|Number of coordinated workshops|2|4|6|6|
|Discount for additional <br>coordinated workshops|20%|33%|50%|50%|
|Self-Organised workshops**|no-charge|no-charge|no-charge|no-charge|
|Number of instructors <br>trained***|0|6 online|15 with possibility <br>for in-person^<br>training event|15-100 - see below|
|Train an in-house Instructor Trainer|No|No|No|Available|
|Seat on Member Council|Yes|Yes|Yes|Yes|
|Membership Dues (USD annual)|$5,000|$7,500|$15,000|Varies - see below|

<a href="https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/Hmfe6L">
  <button class="btn">
    Join Now
  </button>
</a>

### Platinum Memberships

The Platinum tier is our most customisable membership. The price of a Platinum membership 
depends on the benefits selected from the options below. Many Platinum member organisations support individuals
at their institution in carrying out work to further The Carpentries mission in specific
ways. Organisations providing such in-kind services to The Carpentries are eligible
to receive a discount on their membership price, as detailed below.

Members of our team are on hand to help you in constructing a Platinum membership that
best suits your organisation's needs for training and community
support. To request a meeting with our team, [please send us an email](mailto:membership@carpentries.org).

<strong>Instructor Training</strong>  

Instructor Training is a primary benefit of membership. A Platinum membership may
include from 15 to 100 Instructor Training seats. Seats in Instructor Training are priced according to 
whether the training is coordinated by The Carpentries or internally by the member organisation. 
  * online, coordinated by The Carpentries = $1,000 each
  * online with one in-house Instructor Trainer, coordinated by The Carpentries = $750 each
  * online or in-person with two in-house Instructor Trainers, coordinated by member organisation = $500 each

Prices listed above apply to the first 15 seats in online Instructor Training or the first 30 seats in in-house Instructor Training.
We offer a 10% discount on additional seats, with a maximum total of 50 online seats, or 100 in-house seats. A Platinum membership 
must include a minimum of 15 Instructor Training seats. 

<strong>Instructor Trainer Training</strong>

Each year we provide training for a small number of qualified individuals to become Instructor Trainers. This training requires a significant time 
commitment and has limited availability. The cost to support an individual through this training is $10,000. As each active Trainer at a member organisation
earns a $5,000 discount on the membership price, and can support in-house Instructor Training, an Instructor Trainer Training seat
generally pays for itself within two years. 

<strong>Workshops</strong>

Each Platinum membership includes 6 Centrally-Organised workshops\* and unlimited Self-Organised workshops.\*\* 

<strong>Discounts</strong>

* Instructor Trainers - Organisations supporting [Instructor Trainers](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html) earn a $5,000 discount on membership per active Instructor Trainer. This discount does not apply to potential future Instructor Trainers who will take part in Instructor Trainer Training during the membership year.
* Regional Coordinators - Organisations supporting a [Regional Coordinator](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/regional_communities/regional_coordinators.html) earn a $10,000 discount on membership. The typical workload for a Regional Coordinator is 35 Centrally-Organised workshops per year (not including Self-Organised workshops). If workshop demand rises above that level, we may bring on a second Regional Coordinator in your region.
* Community Leaders - In limited cases, individuals carrying out significant community leadership roles may earn a $10,000 discount on membership for their institution. 

Discounts listed above are limited and available only in cases where a potential member organisation's 
ability to offer support to Instructor Trainers, Regional Coordinators, and/or Community Leaders is in line with The Carpentries
needs for support in a particular geographic region. We reserve the right to award these discounts as appropriate for our
organisational growth and sustainability.

<strong>Examples</strong>

University A supports two Instructor Trainers and is interested in running their own Instructor Training events in-house without administrative support
from The Carpentries. They are committed to supporting their Instructor Trainers in teaching Instructor Training events for the broader 
Carpentries community and in fulfilling other commitments specified in our [Trainer Agreement](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html). 
They plan to train a total of 50 Instructors in-house. The 
total cost for University A's membership is ( $500 x 30 ) + ( $450 x 20 ) - ( $5,000 x 2) = $14,000 USD.

University B supports a Regional Coordinator and wants to train 20 Instructors. Because University B does not support any Instructor Trainers, 
they will use The Carpentries Centrally-Organised Instructor Training. The total cost for University B's membership is ( $1000 x 15 ) + ( $900 x 5 ) -
$10,000 = $9,500 USD. 

[Please reach out to us](mailto:membership@carpentries.org) for assistance in designing a Platinum membership that best serves your team's needs. 

### Frequently Asked Questions

Please consult our [Membership FAQ page](/member_faq) for more information about memberships, workshops, and instructor training.


### Notes

Read more about how our workshops are run [here](/workshops/).

\* For Coordinated workshops, we will find instructors for the workshop, set up and handle registration, support instructor logistics and coordinate and share assessment results with the member organisation. A designated contact approves coordinated workshop requests for that organisation. Instructor travel expenses are the responsibility of the member and are not covered in membership fees.

\*\* For Self-Organised workshops, the organisation is responsible for finding local Instructors and handling the logistics of workshop coordination, including registration and registering the workshop with Software, Data, and Library Carpentry. As long at least one Instructor is Carpentries-certified, and either the Software, Data, or Library Carpentry content is fully taught, the workshop can be labeled a Carpentries workshop.

\*\*\* Any Instructor training includes the instructor mentorship and support of the Instructors through the Instructor development program.

^ In-person instructor trainings require an available Trainer and travel funds to support Instructor Trainers' travel.

We are always interested in new members, and in participating in grants and other proposals. To reach us, or to
find out more, [please send us an email](mailto:membership@carpentries.org).

We provide a limited number of sponsored memberships for institutions with financial need and for institutions serving historically underserved populations. If you believe that your institution is eligible for support, [please send us an email](mailto:membership@carpentries.org).

Commit message:

add notice about pricing changes

pages/membership.md, after:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
permalink: /membership/
title: Become a Member Organisation
excerpt: A Member Organisation is an organisation which has made a commitment to the growth and spread of The Carpentries
---

A Member Organisation is an organisation which has made a commitment to the growth and spread of The Carpentries. Members receive priority access to [Instructor Training](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/) and guidance with capacity building at their organisation. With local Instructors, Member organisations can readily run low-cost local [workshops](/workshops/). Community-developed lessons enable our Instructors to globally share the effort for developing impactful lessons on technical topics. Memberships give The Carpentries revenue to ensure the ongoing development and maintenance of the lessons demanded by research communities. We also work to give your local Instructors support, mentorship, and a forum for community lesson development.

{% include alert warning='On November 17th, we announced changes to the structure and pricing of our membership program starting in January 2022. Read [the blog post](https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/11/membership-pricing-update/) to learn more about these upcoming changes. We will update this page on January 4th, 2022 with the new pricing.' %}

### Membership Tiers

We offer several levels of Memberships, based on training activities expected annually. All fees listed are in USD and represent costs for not-for-profit organisations. We also provide memberships for for-profit organisations. Please [contact us](mailto:membership@carpentries.org) for more information.

{: .table .table-striped}
||Bronze|Silver|Gold|Platinum|
| ------|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|
|Number of coordinated workshops|2|4|6|6|
|Discount for additional <br>coordinated workshops|20%|33%|50%|50%|
|Self-Organised workshops**|no-charge|no-charge|no-charge|no-charge|
|Number of instructors <br>trained***|0|6 online|15 with possibility <br>for in-person^<br>training event|15-100 - see below|
|Train an in-house Instructor Trainer|No|No|No|Available|
|Seat on Member Council|Yes|Yes|Yes|Yes|
|Membership Dues (USD annual)|$5,000|$7,500|$15,000|Varies - see below|

<a href="https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/Hmfe6L">
  <button class="btn">
    Join Now
  </button>
</a>

### Platinum Memberships

The Platinum tier is our most customisable membership. The price of a Platinum membership 
depends on the benefits selected from the options below. Many Platinum member organisations support individuals
at their institution in carrying out work to further The Carpentries mission in specific
ways. Organisations providing such in-kind services to The Carpentries are eligible
to receive a discount on their membership price, as detailed below.

Members of our team are on hand to help you in constructing a Platinum membership that
best suits your organisation's needs for training and community
support. To request a meeting with our team, [please send us an email](mailto:membership@carpentries.org).

<strong>Instructor Training</strong>  

Instructor Training is a primary benefit of membership. A Platinum membership may
include from 15 to 100 Instructor Training seats. Seats in Instructor Training are priced according to 
whether the training is coordinated by The Carpentries or internally by the member organisation. 
  * online, coordinated by The Carpentries = $1,000 each
  * online with one in-house Instructor Trainer, coordinated by The Carpentries = $750 each
  * online or in-person with two in-house Instructor Trainers, coordinated by member organisation = $500 each

Prices listed above apply to the first 15 seats in online Instructor Training or the first 30 seats in in-house Instructor Training.
We offer a 10% discount on additional seats, with a maximum total of 50 online seats, or 100 in-house seats. A Platinum membership 
must include a minimum of 15 Instructor Training seats. 

<strong>Instructor Trainer Training</strong>

Each year we provide training for a small number of qualified individuals to become Instructor Trainers. This training requires a significant time 
commitment and has limited availability. The cost to support an individual through this training is $10,000. As each active Trainer at a member organisation
earns a $5,000 discount on the membership price, and can support in-house Instructor Training, an Instructor Trainer Training seat
generally pays for itself within two years. 

<strong>Workshops</strong>

Each Platinum membership includes 6 Centrally-Organised workshops\* and unlimited Self-Organised workshops.\*\* 

<strong>Discounts</strong>

* Instructor Trainers - Organisations supporting [Instructor Trainers](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html) earn a $5,000 discount on membership per active Instructor Trainer. This discount does not apply to potential future Instructor Trainers who will take part in Instructor Trainer Training during the membership year.
* Regional Coordinators - Organisations supporting a [Regional Coordinator](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/regional_communities/regional_coordinators.html) earn a $10,000 discount on membership. The typical workload for a Regional Coordinator is 35 Centrally-Organised workshops per year (not including Self-Organised workshops). If workshop demand rises above that level, we may bring on a second Regional Coordinator in your region.
* Community Leaders - In limited cases, individuals carrying out significant community leadership roles may earn a $10,000 discount on membership for their institution. 

Discounts listed above are limited and available only in cases where a potential member organisation's 
ability to offer support to Instructor Trainers, Regional Coordinators, and/or Community Leaders is in line with The Carpentries
needs for support in a particular geographic region. We reserve the right to award these discounts as appropriate for our
organisational growth and sustainability.

<strong>Examples</strong>

University A supports two Instructor Trainers and is interested in running their own Instructor Training events in-house without administrative support
from The Carpentries. They are committed to supporting their Instructor Trainers in teaching Instructor Training events for the broader 
Carpentries community and in fulfilling other commitments specified in our [Trainer Agreement](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html). 
They plan to train a total of 50 Instructors in-house. The 
total cost for University A's membership is ( $500 x 30 ) + ( $450 x 20 ) - ( $5,000 x 2) = $14,000 USD.

University B supports a Regional Coordinator and wants to train 20 Instructors. Because University B does not support any Instructor Trainers, 
they will use The Carpentries Centrally-Organised Instructor Training. The total cost for University B's membership is ( $1000 x 15 ) + ( $900 x 5 ) -
$10,000 = $9,500 USD. 

[Please reach out to us](mailto:membership@carpentries.org) for assistance in designing a Platinum membership that best serves your team's needs. 

### Frequently Asked Questions

Please consult our [Membership FAQ page](/member_faq) for more information about memberships, workshops, and instructor training.


### Notes

Read more about how our workshops are run [here](/workshops/).

\* For Coordinated workshops, we will find instructors for the workshop, set up and handle registration, support instructor logistics and coordinate and share assessment results with the member organisation. A designated contact approves coordinated workshop requests for that organisation. Instructor travel expenses are the responsibility of the member and are not covered in membership fees.

\*\* For Self-Organised workshops, the organisation is responsible for finding local Instructors and handling the logistics of workshop coordination, including registration and registering the workshop with Software, Data, and Library Carpentry. As long at least one Instructor is Carpentries-certified, and either the Software, Data, or Library Carpentry content is fully taught, the workshop can be labeled a Carpentries workshop.

\*\*\* Any Instructor training includes the instructor mentorship and support of the Instructors through the Instructor development program.

^ In-person instructor trainings require an available Trainer and travel funds to support Instructor Trainers' travel.

We are always interested in new members, and in participating in grants and other proposals. To reach us, or to
find out more, [please send us an email](mailto:membership@carpentries.org).

We provide a limited number of sponsored memberships for institutions with financial need and for institutions serving historically underserved populations. If you believe that your institution is eligible for support, [please send us an email](mailto:membership@carpentries.org).
