pages/python-django-developer.md, before:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "Python/Django Developer"
permalink: /python-django-developer/
---


[The Carpentries](http://carpentries.org/) is committed to “training and
fostering an active, inclusive, diverse community of learners and instructors
who promote and model the importance of software and data in research.” We seek
an engaged and collaborative individual who shares this vision for a contractor
or short-term position as a Python/Django Developer for The Carpentries. The
Python/Django Developer has a broad responsibility for maintaining and
developing new features in [AMY](https://github.com/carpentries/amy), the web
application that manages data on our community members and workshops.

As a Python/Django Developer, you will work closely with the lead developer on
AMY, the Infrastructure Team and the Workshop Administration Team, to improve
the existing code base and implement new features. AMY is built using Django and
relies on the following tools and technologies: Docker, Redis, PostgreSQL, AWS,
jQuery, bootstrap, select2.

The Carpentries is an open, global community teaching the skills and
perspectives to turn data into knowledge. We build capacity in essential data
and computational skills for conducting efficient, open, and reproducible
research. We believe in a world where more people have the computational skills
and perspectives to work with data to address their questions in science,
scholarship and society. We aim to build that world by scaling evidence-based
teaching, creating inclusive environments, and building communities of practice
based on open principles. In this role, you will join a diverse team of
professionals working to spread data-driven research skills. Our community
comprises approximately 70,000 learners, 2,500 instructors, 100 Trainers, and 85 partner organisations
organisations from research institutions around the world.

## Qualifications

We are not expecting in-depth experience with all qualifications of the
position, but given that only a very small team works on AMY, the Developer will
need at least a working knowledge of most of the tools and technologies used by
AMY.

### Requirements


* Excellent written and real-time communication skills
* Ability to work remotely with a distributed team
* Experience with Git and GitHub
* Experience with writing tested, production grade Python and Django
* Commercial knowledge and practice of Linux, Docker, AWS


### Preferred

* Experience with The Carpentries
* Experience with PostgreSQL, Redis
* Experience with CI/CD workflows
* Experience with UX and front-end libraries

Our team values openness, honesty, fairness, and transparency as the keys to
fostering trust. We believe that the individuals who make up our community are
the most important part of our organisation and our strongest resource. We
strive to make decisions that prioritize people first and empower the growth and
success of all who are part of our organisation. We value a growth mindset in
all that we do and strive to be always improving and evolving ourselves and our
methodologies, being receptive to feedback, responsive, curious, and willing to
learn.

## About Us

We are a [Core Team](https://carpentries.org/team/) of thirteen staff and independent
contractors, with a nine-person Executive Council. We are a fiscally sponsored
project of the 501(c)3 [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/). We have
[a large community](https://carpentries.org/instructors-map/) of instructors and
contributors, and a much larger community of users. We use evidence-based
teaching practices to teach the core skills for effective computational and data
work, and we promote reproducible research and open science/open source widely.
All interactions in The Carpentries community and spaces, both virtual and
in-person, are governed by our [Code of
Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html#code-of-conduct-detailed-view).


## Compensation and Benefits

This is a remote position that is funded for 6 months. A minimum of 10
hours/week commitment is required.

For US-based candidates, compensation will be USD $25-70/hour, commensurate with
experience. This position comes with no benefits. You might be hired either as a
temporary employee or a contractor. Please state your preference in your
application.

Outside the US, total compensation may need to be adjusted in accordance with
legal and financial costs associated with international hiring and contracting
for a US-based entity. Benefits may or not be available, depending on employment
law in the candidate’s location. All qualified applicants are highly encouraged
to apply, and we will make every effort to be transparent about the impact of
costs on potential compensation during the interview process. Community
Initiatives will support the hiring or contracting of international workers,
following all local laws related to employment and benefits, ensuring a
competitive compensation package.

## Equal Employment Opportunity

The Carpentries is dedicated to providing a welcoming and supportive environment
for all people, regardless of background or identity. We are an equal
opportunity employer and give consideration for employment to qualified
applicants without regard to age, race, color, religion, creed, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, marital status,
disability or protected veteran status, or any other status or characteristic
protected by US federal, state, or local law. We encourage all qualified
individuals to apply.

## To Apply

Please submit a cover letter and resume or CV to
[jobs@carpentries.org](mailto:jobs@carpentries.org) using "AMY Developer" as the
subject line. Please also clearly indicate your country of residence, and
whether or not you have work authorization in that country. We encourage you to
include links to a portfolio (e.g., GitHub profile) that shows examples of
Python/Django apps you have written as part of your application.

Applications received before November 15th, 23:59 UTC will receive full
consideration.

Feel free to contact François
([francois@carpentries.org](mailto:francois@carpentries.org)) with any
questions.

Commit message:

note jobs that are filled or not accepting applications

pages/python-django-developer.md, after:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "Python/Django Developer"
permalink: /python-django-developer/
---

**We are no longer reviewing applications for this position.**


[The Carpentries](http://carpentries.org/) is committed to “training and
fostering an active, inclusive, diverse community of learners and instructors
who promote and model the importance of software and data in research.” We seek
an engaged and collaborative individual who shares this vision for a contractor
or short-term position as a Python/Django Developer for The Carpentries. The
Python/Django Developer has a broad responsibility for maintaining and
developing new features in [AMY](https://github.com/carpentries/amy), the web
application that manages data on our community members and workshops.

As a Python/Django Developer, you will work closely with the lead developer on
AMY, the Infrastructure Team and the Workshop Administration Team, to improve
the existing code base and implement new features. AMY is built using Django and
relies on the following tools and technologies: Docker, Redis, PostgreSQL, AWS,
jQuery, bootstrap, select2.

The Carpentries is an open, global community teaching the skills and
perspectives to turn data into knowledge. We build capacity in essential data
and computational skills for conducting efficient, open, and reproducible
research. We believe in a world where more people have the computational skills
and perspectives to work with data to address their questions in science,
scholarship and society. We aim to build that world by scaling evidence-based
teaching, creating inclusive environments, and building communities of practice
based on open principles. In this role, you will join a diverse team of
professionals working to spread data-driven research skills. Our community
comprises approximately 70,000 learners, 2,500 instructors, 100 Trainers, and 85 partner organisations
organisations from research institutions around the world.

## Qualifications

We are not expecting in-depth experience with all qualifications of the
position, but given that only a very small team works on AMY, the Developer will
need at least a working knowledge of most of the tools and technologies used by
AMY.

### Requirements


* Excellent written and real-time communication skills
* Ability to work remotely with a distributed team
* Experience with Git and GitHub
* Experience with writing tested, production grade Python and Django
* Commercial knowledge and practice of Linux, Docker, AWS


### Preferred

* Experience with The Carpentries
* Experience with PostgreSQL, Redis
* Experience with CI/CD workflows
* Experience with UX and front-end libraries

Our team values openness, honesty, fairness, and transparency as the keys to
fostering trust. We believe that the individuals who make up our community are
the most important part of our organisation and our strongest resource. We
strive to make decisions that prioritize people first and empower the growth and
success of all who are part of our organisation. We value a growth mindset in
all that we do and strive to be always improving and evolving ourselves and our
methodologies, being receptive to feedback, responsive, curious, and willing to
learn.

## About Us

We are a [Core Team](https://carpentries.org/team/) of thirteen staff and independent
contractors, with a nine-person Executive Council. We are a fiscally sponsored
project of the 501(c)3 [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/). We have
[a large community](https://carpentries.org/instructors-map/) of instructors and
contributors, and a much larger community of users. We use evidence-based
teaching practices to teach the core skills for effective computational and data
work, and we promote reproducible research and open science/open source widely.
All interactions in The Carpentries community and spaces, both virtual and
in-person, are governed by our [Code of
Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html#code-of-conduct-detailed-view).


## Compensation and Benefits

This is a remote position that is funded for 6 months. A minimum of 10
hours/week commitment is required.

For US-based candidates, compensation will be USD $25-70/hour, commensurate with
experience. This position comes with no benefits. You might be hired either as a
temporary employee or a contractor. Please state your preference in your
application.

Outside the US, total compensation may need to be adjusted in accordance with
legal and financial costs associated with international hiring and contracting
for a US-based entity. Benefits may or not be available, depending on employment
law in the candidate’s location. All qualified applicants are highly encouraged
to apply, and we will make every effort to be transparent about the impact of
costs on potential compensation during the interview process. Community
Initiatives will support the hiring or contracting of international workers,
following all local laws related to employment and benefits, ensuring a
competitive compensation package.

## Equal Employment Opportunity

The Carpentries is dedicated to providing a welcoming and supportive environment
for all people, regardless of background or identity. We are an equal
opportunity employer and give consideration for employment to qualified
applicants without regard to age, race, color, religion, creed, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, marital status,
disability or protected veteran status, or any other status or characteristic
protected by US federal, state, or local law. We encourage all qualified
individuals to apply.

## To Apply

Please submit a cover letter and resume or CV to
[jobs@carpentries.org](mailto:jobs@carpentries.org) using "AMY Developer" as the
subject line. Please also clearly indicate your country of residence, and
whether or not you have work authorization in that country. We encourage you to
include links to a portfolio (e.g., GitHub profile) that shows examples of
Python/Django apps you have written as part of your application.

Applications received before November 15th, 23:59 UTC will receive full
consideration.

Feel free to contact François
([francois@carpentries.org](mailto:francois@carpentries.org)) with any
questions.
