pages/ui-developer.md, before:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "Web Developer and Accessibility Specialist"
permalink: /ui-developer/
---


[The Carpentries](http://carpentries.org/) is committed to “training and
fostering an active, inclusive, diverse community of learners and instructors
who promote and model the importance of software and data in research.” We seek
an engaged and collaborative individual who shares this vision for a contractor
position as a Web Developer and Accessibility Specialist for The Carpentries. 
The Web Developer and Accessibility Specialist will have the
responsibility of converting designs from Figma into HTML, CSS, and JS code. Our
lessons are used by learners worldwide and accessed by over 50,000 visitors
monthly. We have outlined in blog posts the [design
principles](https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/08/lesson-template-design/) and
the process behind the [development of the User
Interface](https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/05/lesson-template-design-process/).

We are looking for an experienced Web Developer and Accessibility Specialist who
is passionate about accessibility and is excited about providing innovative
solutions to address the needs and challenges of the users of our lessons. You
will work closely with the [Curriculum
Team](https://carpentries.org/core-team-projects/#curriculum-team) to deliver
open-source and open-licensed code that we will use to create our lesson
websites.

The Carpentries is an open, global, community teaching the skills and
perspectives to turn data into knowledge. We build capacity in essential data
and computational skills for conducting efficient, open, and reproducible
research. We believe in a world where more people have the computational skills
and perspectives to work with data to address their questions in science,
scholarship and society. We aim to build that world by scaling evidence-based
teaching, creating inclusive environments, and building communities of practice
based on open principles. In this role, you will join a diverse team of
professionals working to spread data-driven research skills. Our community
comprises 80,000 learners, 3,000 instructors, 120 Trainers, and 100 member
organisations from research institutions around the world.


### Qualifications

#### Required

* Demonstrated experience writing clear and well-documented HTML, CSS, and JS.
* Solid understanding of WCAG 2.1 standards and demonstrated ability to put them
  into practise.
* Excellent written communication skills.
* Ability to work remotely with a distributed team.

#### Preferred

* IAAP Certification: Certified Professional in Web Accessibility (CPWA)
* Knowledge of [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)
* Knowledge of static site generators (e.g., Jekyll)
* Experience developing websites for offline use

Our team values openness, honesty, fairness, and transparency as the keys to
fostering trust. We believe that the individuals who make up our community are
the most important part of our organisation and our strongest resource. We
strive to make decisions that prioritize people first and empower the growth and
success of all who are part of our organisation. We value a growth mindset in
all that we do and strive to be always improving and evolving ourselves and our
methodologies, being receptive to feedback, responsive, curious, and willing to
learn.

### About Us

We are a [Core Team](https://carpentries.org/team/) of 16 staff and independent
contractors, with a nine-person Executive Council. We are a fiscally sponsored
project of the 501(c)3 [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/). We have
[a large community](https://carpentries.org/instructors-map/) of instructors and
contributors, and a much larger community of users. We use evidence-based
teaching practices to teach the core skills for effective computational and data
work, and we promote reproducible research and open science/open source widely.
All interactions in The Carpentries community and spaces, both virtual and
in-person, are governed by our [Code of
Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html#code-of-conduct-detailed-view).


### Compensation and Benefits

This is a remote, short-term position that is initially funded for 120 hours
spread over up to 6 weeks.

For US-based candidates, compensation will be USD $50-70/hour, commensurate with
experience. This position comes with no benefits.

Outside the US, total compensation may need to be adjusted in accordance with
legal and financial costs associated with international hiring and contracting
for a US-based entity. Benefits may or not be available, depending on employment
law in the candidate’s location. All qualified applicants are highly encouraged
to apply, and we will make every effort to be transparent about the impact of
costs on potential compensation during the interview process. Community
Initiatives will support the hiring or contracting of international workers,
following all local laws related to employment and benefits, ensuring a
competitive compensation package.

### Equal Employment Opportunity

The Carpentries is dedicated to providing a welcoming and supportive environment
for all people, regardless of background or identity. We are an equal
opportunity employer and give consideration for employment to qualified
applicants without regard to age, race, color, religion, creed, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, marital status,
disability or protected veteran status, or any other status or characteristic
protected by US federal, state, or local law. We encourage all qualified
individuals to apply.

### To Apply

Please submit a cover letter and resume or CV to
[jobs@carpentries.org](mailto:jobs@carpentries.org). Please also clearly
indicate your country of residence, and whether or not you have work
authorization in that country. We encourage you to include links to a portfolio
and/or a link to your GitHub/GitLab profile as part of your application.

Applications received before July 31st, 23:59 UTC will receive full consideration.

Commit message:

note that we are no longer reviewing application for web dev ad

pages/ui-developer.md, after:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "Web Developer and Accessibility Specialist"
permalink: /ui-developer/
---

**We are no longer reviewing applications for this position.**

[The Carpentries](http://carpentries.org/) is committed to “training and
fostering an active, inclusive, diverse community of learners and instructors
who promote and model the importance of software and data in research.” We seek
an engaged and collaborative individual who shares this vision for a contractor
position as a Web Developer and Accessibility Specialist for The Carpentries. 
The Web Developer and Accessibility Specialist will have the
responsibility of converting designs from Figma into HTML, CSS, and JS code. Our
lessons are used by learners worldwide and accessed by over 50,000 visitors
monthly. We have outlined in blog posts the [design
principles](https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/08/lesson-template-design/) and
the process behind the [development of the User
Interface](https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/05/lesson-template-design-process/).

We are looking for an experienced Web Developer and Accessibility Specialist who
is passionate about accessibility and is excited about providing innovative
solutions to address the needs and challenges of the users of our lessons. You
will work closely with the [Curriculum
Team](https://carpentries.org/core-team-projects/#curriculum-team) to deliver
open-source and open-licensed code that we will use to create our lesson
websites.

The Carpentries is an open, global, community teaching the skills and
perspectives to turn data into knowledge. We build capacity in essential data
and computational skills for conducting efficient, open, and reproducible
research. We believe in a world where more people have the computational skills
and perspectives to work with data to address their questions in science,
scholarship and society. We aim to build that world by scaling evidence-based
teaching, creating inclusive environments, and building communities of practice
based on open principles. In this role, you will join a diverse team of
professionals working to spread data-driven research skills. Our community
comprises 80,000 learners, 3,000 instructors, 120 Trainers, and 100 member
organisations from research institutions around the world.


### Qualifications

#### Required

* Demonstrated experience writing clear and well-documented HTML, CSS, and JS.
* Solid understanding of WCAG 2.1 standards and demonstrated ability to put them
  into practise.
* Excellent written communication skills.
* Ability to work remotely with a distributed team.

#### Preferred

* IAAP Certification: Certified Professional in Web Accessibility (CPWA)
* Knowledge of [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)
* Knowledge of static site generators (e.g., Jekyll)
* Experience developing websites for offline use

Our team values openness, honesty, fairness, and transparency as the keys to
fostering trust. We believe that the individuals who make up our community are
the most important part of our organisation and our strongest resource. We
strive to make decisions that prioritize people first and empower the growth and
success of all who are part of our organisation. We value a growth mindset in
all that we do and strive to be always improving and evolving ourselves and our
methodologies, being receptive to feedback, responsive, curious, and willing to
learn.

### About Us

We are a [Core Team](https://carpentries.org/team/) of 16 staff and independent
contractors, with a nine-person Executive Council. We are a fiscally sponsored
project of the 501(c)3 [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/). We have
[a large community](https://carpentries.org/instructors-map/) of instructors and
contributors, and a much larger community of users. We use evidence-based
teaching practices to teach the core skills for effective computational and data
work, and we promote reproducible research and open science/open source widely.
All interactions in The Carpentries community and spaces, both virtual and
in-person, are governed by our [Code of
Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html#code-of-conduct-detailed-view).


### Compensation and Benefits

This is a remote, short-term position that is initially funded for 120 hours
spread over up to 6 weeks.

For US-based candidates, compensation will be USD $50-70/hour, commensurate with
experience. This position comes with no benefits.

Outside the US, total compensation may need to be adjusted in accordance with
legal and financial costs associated with international hiring and contracting
for a US-based entity. Benefits may or not be available, depending on employment
law in the candidate’s location. All qualified applicants are highly encouraged
to apply, and we will make every effort to be transparent about the impact of
costs on potential compensation during the interview process. Community
Initiatives will support the hiring or contracting of international workers,
following all local laws related to employment and benefits, ensuring a
competitive compensation package.

### Equal Employment Opportunity

The Carpentries is dedicated to providing a welcoming and supportive environment
for all people, regardless of background or identity. We are an equal
opportunity employer and give consideration for employment to qualified
applicants without regard to age, race, color, religion, creed, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, marital status,
disability or protected veteran status, or any other status or characteristic
protected by US federal, state, or local law. We encourage all qualified
individuals to apply.

### To Apply

Please submit a cover letter and resume or CV to
[jobs@carpentries.org](mailto:jobs@carpentries.org). Please also clearly
indicate your country of residence, and whether or not you have work
authorization in that country. We encourage you to include links to a portfolio
and/or a link to your GitHub/GitLab profile as part of your application.

Applications received before July 31st, 23:59 UTC will receive full consideration.
