pages/ux-ui-designer.md, before:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "UX/UI Designer"
permalink: /ux-ui-designer/
---

[The Carpentries](http://carpentries.org/) is committed to “training and
fostering an active, inclusive, diverse community of learners and instructors
who promote and model the importance of software and data in research.” We seek
an engaged and collaborative individual who shares this vision for a contractor
position as a UX/UI Designer for The Carpentries. The UX/UI Designer will have
the responsibility of designing the next iteration of our lesson template. Our
lessons are used by learners worldwide and accessed by over 50,000 visitors
monthly. We have outlined some of the design principles we are envisioning for
this lesson template in [this blog
post](https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/08/lesson-template-design/).

We are looking for an experienced UX/UI Designer who is passionate about
accessibility and is excited about providing innovative solutions to address the
needs and constraints of the users of our lesson template. You will work closely
with the Curriculum Team to research usability gaps and issues in the current
template, develop wireframes and prototypes, and deliver a fully functional
website.

The Carpentries is an open, global community teaching the skills and
perspectives to turn data into knowledge. We build capacity in essential data
and computational skills for conducting efficient, open, and reproducible
research. We believe in a world where more people have the computational skills
and perspectives to work with data to address their questions in science,
scholarship and society. We aim to build that world by scaling evidence-based
teaching, creating inclusive environments, and building communities of practice
based on open principles. In this role, you will join a diverse team of
professionals working to spread data-driven research skills. Our community
comprises 50,000 learners, 2,500 instructors, 100 Trainers, and 70 member
organisations from research institutions around the world.


## Qualifications

### Required

* Experience using human-centered design on digital products demonstrated by a
  strong portfolio of work solving clear user needs in a thoughtful,
  intentional manner.
* Solid understanding of web accessibility standards and how to apply them to
  your designs.
* Ability to create highly polished design prototypes, mockups, and other
  communication artifacts.
* Demonstrated experience writing clear and well-documented HTML, CSS and JS.
* Excellent written and real-time communication skills 
* Ability to work remotely with a distributed team.

### Preferred

* Knowledge of evidence-based practices for inclusive and impactful design.
* Experience in designing educational digital products.
* Knowledge of [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/).

Our team values openness, honesty, fairness, and transparency as the keys to
fostering trust. We believe that the individuals who make up our community are
the most important part of our organisation and our strongest resource. We
strive to make decisions that prioritize people first and empower the growth and
success of all who are part of our organisation. We value a growth mindset in
all that we do and strive to be always improving and evolving ourselves and our
methodologies, being receptive to feedback, responsive, curious, and willing to
learn.

## About Us

We are a [Core Team](https://carpentries.org/team/) of 13 staff and independent
contractors, with a nine-person Executive Council. We are a fiscally sponsored
project of the 501(c)3 [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/). We have
[a large community](https://carpentries.org/instructors-map/) of instructors and
contributors, and a much larger community of users. We use evidence-based
teaching practices to teach the core skills for effective computational and data
work, and we promote reproducible research and open science/open source widely.
All interactions in The Carpentries community and spaces, both virtual and
in-person, are governed by our [Code of
Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html#code-of-conduct-detailed-view).


## Compensation and Benefits

This is a remote, short-term position that is funded for 240 hours spread over
12 weeks.

For US-based candidates, compensation will be USD $25-70/hour, commensurate with
experience. This position comes with no benefits. You will be hired as a
contractor.

Outside the US, total compensation may need to be adjusted in accordance with
legal and financial costs associated with international hiring and contracting
for a US-based entity. Benefits may or not be available, depending on employment
law in the candidate’s location. All qualified applicants are highly encouraged
to apply, and we will make every effort to be transparent about the impact of
costs on potential compensation during the interview process. Community
Initiatives will support the hiring or contracting of international workers,
following all local laws related to employment and benefits, ensuring a
competitive compensation package.

## Equal Employment Opportunity

The Carpentries is dedicated to providing a welcoming and supportive environment
for all people, regardless of background or identity. We are an equal
opportunity employer and give consideration for employment to qualified
applicants without regard to age, race, color, religion, creed, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, marital status,
disability or protected veteran status, or any other status or characteristic
protected by US federal, state, or local law. We encourage all qualified
individuals to apply.

## To Apply

Please submit a cover letter and resume or CV to
[jobs@carpentries.org](mailto:jobs@carpentries.org) using the subject line
"UX/UI Designer". Please also clearly indicate your country of residence, and
whether or not you have work authorization in that country. We encourage you to
include links to a portfolio as part of your application.

Applications received before November 22nd, 23:59 UTC will receive full
consideration.

Commit message:

note jobs that are filled or not accepting applications

pages/ux-ui-designer.md, after:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "UX/UI Designer"
permalink: /ux-ui-designer/
---

**We are no longer reviewing applications for this position.**


[The Carpentries](http://carpentries.org/) is committed to “training and
fostering an active, inclusive, diverse community of learners and instructors
who promote and model the importance of software and data in research.” We seek
an engaged and collaborative individual who shares this vision for a contractor
position as a UX/UI Designer for The Carpentries. The UX/UI Designer will have
the responsibility of designing the next iteration of our lesson template. Our
lessons are used by learners worldwide and accessed by over 50,000 visitors
monthly. We have outlined some of the design principles we are envisioning for
this lesson template in [this blog
post](https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/08/lesson-template-design/).

We are looking for an experienced UX/UI Designer who is passionate about
accessibility and is excited about providing innovative solutions to address the
needs and constraints of the users of our lesson template. You will work closely
with the Curriculum Team to research usability gaps and issues in the current
template, develop wireframes and prototypes, and deliver a fully functional
website.

The Carpentries is an open, global community teaching the skills and
perspectives to turn data into knowledge. We build capacity in essential data
and computational skills for conducting efficient, open, and reproducible
research. We believe in a world where more people have the computational skills
and perspectives to work with data to address their questions in science,
scholarship and society. We aim to build that world by scaling evidence-based
teaching, creating inclusive environments, and building communities of practice
based on open principles. In this role, you will join a diverse team of
professionals working to spread data-driven research skills. Our community
comprises 50,000 learners, 2,500 instructors, 100 Trainers, and 70 member
organisations from research institutions around the world.


## Qualifications

### Required

* Experience using human-centered design on digital products demonstrated by a
  strong portfolio of work solving clear user needs in a thoughtful,
  intentional manner.
* Solid understanding of web accessibility standards and how to apply them to
  your designs.
* Ability to create highly polished design prototypes, mockups, and other
  communication artifacts.
* Demonstrated experience writing clear and well-documented HTML, CSS and JS.
* Excellent written and real-time communication skills 
* Ability to work remotely with a distributed team.

### Preferred

* Knowledge of evidence-based practices for inclusive and impactful design.
* Experience in designing educational digital products.
* Knowledge of [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/).

Our team values openness, honesty, fairness, and transparency as the keys to
fostering trust. We believe that the individuals who make up our community are
the most important part of our organisation and our strongest resource. We
strive to make decisions that prioritize people first and empower the growth and
success of all who are part of our organisation. We value a growth mindset in
all that we do and strive to be always improving and evolving ourselves and our
methodologies, being receptive to feedback, responsive, curious, and willing to
learn.

## About Us

We are a [Core Team](https://carpentries.org/team/) of 13 staff and independent
contractors, with a nine-person Executive Council. We are a fiscally sponsored
project of the 501(c)3 [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/). We have
[a large community](https://carpentries.org/instructors-map/) of instructors and
contributors, and a much larger community of users. We use evidence-based
teaching practices to teach the core skills for effective computational and data
work, and we promote reproducible research and open science/open source widely.
All interactions in The Carpentries community and spaces, both virtual and
in-person, are governed by our [Code of
Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html#code-of-conduct-detailed-view).


## Compensation and Benefits

This is a remote, short-term position that is funded for 240 hours spread over
12 weeks.

For US-based candidates, compensation will be USD $25-70/hour, commensurate with
experience. This position comes with no benefits. You will be hired as a
contractor.

Outside the US, total compensation may need to be adjusted in accordance with
legal and financial costs associated with international hiring and contracting
for a US-based entity. Benefits may or not be available, depending on employment
law in the candidate’s location. All qualified applicants are highly encouraged
to apply, and we will make every effort to be transparent about the impact of
costs on potential compensation during the interview process. Community
Initiatives will support the hiring or contracting of international workers,
following all local laws related to employment and benefits, ensuring a
competitive compensation package.

## Equal Employment Opportunity

The Carpentries is dedicated to providing a welcoming and supportive environment
for all people, regardless of background or identity. We are an equal
opportunity employer and give consideration for employment to qualified
applicants without regard to age, race, color, religion, creed, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, marital status,
disability or protected veteran status, or any other status or characteristic
protected by US federal, state, or local law. We encourage all qualified
individuals to apply.

## To Apply

Please submit a cover letter and resume or CV to
[jobs@carpentries.org](mailto:jobs@carpentries.org) using the subject line
"UX/UI Designer". Please also clearly indicate your country of residence, and
whether or not you have work authorization in that country. We encourage you to
include links to a portfolio as part of your application.

Applications received before November 22nd, 23:59 UTC will receive full
consideration.
