pages/workshop-administrator.md, before:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "Workshop Administrator"
permalink: /workshop-administrator/
---

Posting date: 26 October 2020 

[The Carpentries](http://carpentries.org/) is committed to training and fostering an active, inclusive, diverse community of learners and 
instructors who promote and model the importance of software and data in research. We seek an engaged and collaborative individual who shares
this vision for a full-time position as the Workshop Administrator for The Carpentries (U.S. based). 

The Workshop Administrator is responsible for coordinating logistics for all organizational workshops. They select instructors, manage registration,
ensure appropriate setup of instructional space, and manage communication between workshop hosts and instructors. They collect appropriate workshop 
metrics, ensure accurate and up-to-date records, and communicate survey results to instructors. This position may also include other administrative
and event tasks and duties as needed.

The Carpentries is an open, global community teaching the skills and perspectives to turn data into knowledge. We build capacity in essential data and
computational skills for conducting efficient, open, and reproducible research. We believe in a world where more people have the computational skills
and perspectives to work with data to address their questions in science, scholarship and society. We aim to build that world by scaling evidence-based
teaching, creating inclusive environments, and building communities of practice based on open principles. In this role, you will join a diverse team
of professionals working to spread data-driven research skills. Our community comprises approximately 70,000 learners, 2,800 instructors, 100 Trainers,
and 85 partner organisations from research institutions around the world.

This role is a good fit for an individual who is able to work independently, and who has experience with event planning and management, ideally for 
geographically dispersed events.

## Qualifications:
This posting is intentionally broad. We are not expecting experience with all components of the position. We are looking for someone with skills and 
perspectives that complement our existing team and an enthusiasm for the role and the goals and approaches of our organisation.

## Requirements
- Bachelor's degree preferred
- Demonstrated ability to work independently including the ability to exercise a high degree of independent judgment
- Experience with event planning and management, ideally for geographically dispersed events
- Excellent organizational skills
- Excellent written and real-time communication skills
- Customer-service orientation
- Demonstrated commitment to equity and inclusion
- Ability to manage high volume events simultaneously
- Excellent time management skills
- Able to work remotely with a distributed team

## Preferred
- Experience with The Carpentries
- Demonstrated leadership experience in professional or volunteer settings
- Project management skills

Our team values openness, honesty, fairness, and transparency as the keys to fostering trust. We believe that the individuals who make up our 
community are the most important part of our organisation and our strongest resource. We strive to make decisions that prioritize people first and 
empower the growth and success of all who are part of our organisation. We value a growth mindset in all that we do and strive to be always improving
and evolving ourselves and our methodologies, being receptive to feedback, responsive, curious, and willing to learn.

## About Us

We are a [Core Team](https://carpentries.org/team/) of thirteen  staff and independent contractors, with a nine person Executive Council. We are a 
fiscally sponsored project of the 501(c)3 [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/). We have 
[a large community](https://carpentries.org/instructors-map/) of instructors and contributors, and a much larger community of users. We use 
evidence-based teaching practices to teach the core skills for effective computational and data work, and we promote reproducible research and open
science/open source widely. All interactions in The Carpentries community and spaces, both virtual and in-person, are governed by our 
[Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html#code-of-conduct-detailed-view).

## Compensation and Benefits
This is a remote, U.S. based position and is initially funded for one year, with the possibility of extension. Compensation will be 
$35,000 - $55,000 USD annually, commensurate with experience. All qualified applicants are highly encouraged to apply.

Community Initiatives offers a comprehensive benefits package including:
- Fully paid medical, dental and vision
- 401k with employer match
- Basic life insurance, AD&D, STD & LTD
- 4 weeks of vacation
- 12 paid holidays
- 4 floating holidays

## Equal Employment Opportunity
The Carpentries is dedicated to providing a welcoming and supportive environment for all people, regardless of background or identity. 
We are an equal opportunity employer and give consideration for employment to qualified applicants without regard to age, race, color, religion, 
creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, marital status, disability or protected veteran status, or any other
status or characteristic protected by US federal, state, or local law. We encourage all qualified individuals to apply.

## To Apply
Please submit a cover letter and resume or CV to jobs@carpentries.org. If you would like to be considered for any of our 
[other open positions](http://carpentries.org/jobs), please indicate all positions you are applying for in your cover letter. 
Please also clearly indicate that you are authorized for employment in the United States. 

Applications received before November 11, 2020 [00:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201110T2359) will
receive full consideration.

Commit message:

note jobs that are filled or not accepting applications

pages/workshop-administrator.md, after:

---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "Workshop Administrator"
permalink: /workshop-administrator/
---

Posting date: 26 October 2020 

**We are no longer reviewing applications for this position.**

[The Carpentries](http://carpentries.org/) is committed to training and fostering an active, inclusive, diverse community of learners and 
instructors who promote and model the importance of software and data in research. We seek an engaged and collaborative individual who shares
this vision for a full-time position as the Workshop Administrator for The Carpentries (U.S. based). 

The Workshop Administrator is responsible for coordinating logistics for all organizational workshops. They select instructors, manage registration,
ensure appropriate setup of instructional space, and manage communication between workshop hosts and instructors. They collect appropriate workshop 
metrics, ensure accurate and up-to-date records, and communicate survey results to instructors. This position may also include other administrative
and event tasks and duties as needed.

The Carpentries is an open, global community teaching the skills and perspectives to turn data into knowledge. We build capacity in essential data and
computational skills for conducting efficient, open, and reproducible research. We believe in a world where more people have the computational skills
and perspectives to work with data to address their questions in science, scholarship and society. We aim to build that world by scaling evidence-based
teaching, creating inclusive environments, and building communities of practice based on open principles. In this role, you will join a diverse team
of professionals working to spread data-driven research skills. Our community comprises approximately 70,000 learners, 2,800 instructors, 100 Trainers,
and 85 partner organisations from research institutions around the world.

This role is a good fit for an individual who is able to work independently, and who has experience with event planning and management, ideally for 
geographically dispersed events.

## Qualifications:
This posting is intentionally broad. We are not expecting experience with all components of the position. We are looking for someone with skills and 
perspectives that complement our existing team and an enthusiasm for the role and the goals and approaches of our organisation.

## Requirements
- Bachelor's degree preferred
- Demonstrated ability to work independently including the ability to exercise a high degree of independent judgment
- Experience with event planning and management, ideally for geographically dispersed events
- Excellent organizational skills
- Excellent written and real-time communication skills
- Customer-service orientation
- Demonstrated commitment to equity and inclusion
- Ability to manage high volume events simultaneously
- Excellent time management skills
- Able to work remotely with a distributed team

## Preferred
- Experience with The Carpentries
- Demonstrated leadership experience in professional or volunteer settings
- Project management skills

Our team values openness, honesty, fairness, and transparency as the keys to fostering trust. We believe that the individuals who make up our 
community are the most important part of our organisation and our strongest resource. We strive to make decisions that prioritize people first and 
empower the growth and success of all who are part of our organisation. We value a growth mindset in all that we do and strive to be always improving
and evolving ourselves and our methodologies, being receptive to feedback, responsive, curious, and willing to learn.

## About Us

We are a [Core Team](https://carpentries.org/team/) of thirteen  staff and independent contractors, with a nine person Executive Council. We are a 
fiscally sponsored project of the 501(c)3 [Community Initiatives](http://communityin.org/). We have 
[a large community](https://carpentries.org/instructors-map/) of instructors and contributors, and a much larger community of users. We use 
evidence-based teaching practices to teach the core skills for effective computational and data work, and we promote reproducible research and open
science/open source widely. All interactions in The Carpentries community and spaces, both virtual and in-person, are governed by our 
[Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html#code-of-conduct-detailed-view).

## Compensation and Benefits
This is a remote, U.S. based position and is initially funded for one year, with the possibility of extension. Compensation will be 
$35,000 - $55,000 USD annually, commensurate with experience. All qualified applicants are highly encouraged to apply.

Community Initiatives offers a comprehensive benefits package including:
- Fully paid medical, dental and vision
- 401k with employer match
- Basic life insurance, AD&D, STD & LTD
- 4 weeks of vacation
- 12 paid holidays
- 4 floating holidays

## Equal Employment Opportunity
The Carpentries is dedicated to providing a welcoming and supportive environment for all people, regardless of background or identity. 
We are an equal opportunity employer and give consideration for employment to qualified applicants without regard to age, race, color, religion, 
creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, marital status, disability or protected veteran status, or any other
status or characteristic protected by US federal, state, or local law. We encourage all qualified individuals to apply.

## To Apply
Please submit a cover letter and resume or CV to jobs@carpentries.org. If you would like to be considered for any of our 
[other open positions](http://carpentries.org/jobs), please indicate all positions you are applying for in your cover letter. 
Please also clearly indicate that you are authorized for employment in the United States. 

Applications received before November 11, 2020 [00:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201110T2359) will
receive full consideration.
